# HW 7 Writeup

I think Nguyen's assertion about agency in games is a brilliant observation, one that opens up a new alley of artistic expression and analysis. Since games are still a new art form, and still struggle to be acknowledged as art, this is something that most people do not think about when they think about games. The idea that "agency is an artform," something that can be "painted" and then presented to a player to experience, I find very exciting. Not many games are able to fully evoke this idea, but those that do succesfully usually achieve widespread sales and appreciation. For example *Undertale*, takes the classic JRPG formula of turn based monster battles and installs a framework of choice on top of it. Instead of killing every monster you come accross you are presented with agency over whether you wish to kill the monster or to find a peaceful resolution to the battle. The game presents you with consequences for your choices, and humanizes the character of the monsters; killing isn't as cut and dry as you may be used to. The traditional presentation of choice in a story-based game is to offer choices at critical moments of the game, and the fork the story off of these choices. However, *Undertale* sprinkles its agency in every part of the game; the combat and the story alike. If you wish to maintain a mantra of pacifism, you must not just make the choice in a text-box, but live it through the gameplay. (This goes doubly for players who decide to kill.) This addition of agency (along with the witty and heartfelt writing of Toby Fox) caused *Undertale* to be a beloved modern video-game classic.
